hi everyone thanks for coming back
Laszlo Montgomery here with another
Chinese saying and a musical one at that
today we're gonna look at wrench in
Jurong spoiler alert
like last week this one sort of ends on
a bit of a downer and let me say right
up front this is a tongue you that you
hope you never have to use wrenching
joo-hwan let's pick it apart then is a
person or in this case a man Sheen once
again we run into this character H Sheen
is a Chinese lute zither like you recall
from the recent episode a note on Ching
to play a lute to an axe and jus means
all or entirely or together and the
character Wong means to die so wrenching
g'wan person chin together die well
other than the pre knowledge that this
story isn't gonna end well it's hard to
extract the meaning out of those four
syllables so let's go find the key that
unlocks this door the truth or
derivation of this Chinese saying is one
we never use before it came out during
the none page how the southern and
northern dynasties period 422 589 this
followed the eastern jin the work is
called the sure shawl she knew this was
credited to one yoyi ching of the leo
song first of the southern dynasties the
Sher Shah she knew was a book of
anecdotes about all the various literati
who lived during the preceding Qin
Dynasty
this story is special I know I always
say that but the people in it a father
and his two sons were legends in their
own time the father was featured one
says the topic of CHP episode 96 which
told the story of the life of
calligrapher extraordinaire Wang Shi Qi
he lived during the eastern jin dynasty
from 321 to 379 back when the capital
was in Jin Cong
which is modern-day Nanjing I'm not
gonna say was the greatest calligrapher
of all time but he is usually the Pat
answer when everyone asks you know who
was the greatest calligrapher in ancient
China his work the LAN ting shoe or
preface to the poems collected from the
orchid pavilion is a major work from
ancient times and was copied by many who
follow one teacher was serving as an
official down in Xiao Qing when he did
this master work I mean if any originals
of the LAN ting shoe exists there tucked
away in someone's private collection it
said the title Emperor co-founder of the
Tong dynasty insisted on being buried
with a an original so Huang Shi Jer is
traditionally called China's greatest
calligrapher greatest or not he did get
the moniker of Shu Xiang or the saint of
calligraphy an anonymous buyer in China
back in 2010 forked over 46 million
dollars for a reproduction of Wong's
teachers work it was done in the Tong
so you might say he's quite respected in
the world of Chinese culture and even
more so in the world of Chinese
calligraphy well after all this hype I
regret to say a one-sheet chair isn't
actually in our story today but two of
his seven sons were and many who are
expert in calligraphy say the youngest
son Wang Sheng Jue is just as good as
his saintly father the older son wager
was also renowned in his day but to most
Wang Shi Zhai and Wang Sheng Jue are the
two more familiar names but one day in
his prime one ginger passed away
suddenly in his early forties when he
was alive he would often relax by
playing the Qin and he became quite
proficient in this instrument if he ever
played it to an ox I can't say for sure
so when brother wager attended the
funeral of his younger brother and he
approached the beer he didn't shed a
single tear he just stood there before
his brother's coffin silently next to
the coffin
Wong gingers chin and wager reached for
it and tried in vain I might add to tune
it or extract some familiar melody from
it no matter how hard he tried creature
couldn't get the instrument to yield
anything so with tears welling up in his
eyes he smashed it to the ground and
cried to his dearly departed brother
that both his chin or lutes had died
along with him both the man and the lute
had perished and let me close this story
by saying one creature himself died of a
broken heart
only a month later the wrenching the man
and the lute Jew both are together Wong
died wrenching Chuang the sad story of
the brothers Wang sons of one of China's
greatest men of letters 1 XI Chi CHP
episode 96 if you wanna hear a little
more about the Shu Xiang the calligraphy
st. and the times he lived in he was one
of the many literary greats to come out
of that most literary of cities Shao
Shang in judging province so as I said
this is a Chung you we all hope we never
have to use but in cases where you see
some memento or other object that brings
back memories of a dear one who in life
possessed that item this cheung yu-yan
Qing Chuang is an expression of that
great sadness and grief you might feel
when you see something that you know
reminds you of your loss so so that's
the skinny on that one sorry I can't
drag this one out any more than I did
I think perhaps this was more of a brief
history lesson on Wang XI chair than
anything else anyway I hope you enjoyed
this nice musical Chong u wrenching
Chuang the man and the Qin both have
perished okay without further ado or any
commercials or needless filler material
let's just call it a day right here and
now
this is Lazlo Montgomery yeah I know
same guys the China history podcast and
China vintage hour all part of the
sprawling teacup media empire go check
all that stuff out at the usual places
and of course teacup dot media and if
you'll let me
well toot my horn for a moment this
exact same Chinese sayings podcast is
also available
wide in the in-flight entertainment
system of fantastic and wonderful cafe
Pacific Airways ok see you next time
everyone at least I hope so
I'll have yet another nice musical Chung
you for your ever-growing collection
take care all